= General =

== What is CRaSH ? ==

CRaSH is a shell that extends JVM. With CRaSH, you will connect with a shell directly on a JVM.
Moreover, you could add your command (Java/Groovy) and that's why CRaSH is really interesting.

== What can I do with CRaSH ? ==

* Monitoring JVM and make your own dashboard command.
* Make command for your application (add data in a cache, add user, monitor jobs ).
* Make your JMX command.

== What is the differences between CRaSH and JMX ? ==

JMX provides only bean and methods.That's all.
CRaSH permit to access to JMX and to make command with it.
CRaSH also permit to make script with thread, jdbc, entity ...

= Running CRaSH =

== How can I run CRaSH ? ==

See documentation : [[reference.html#running]]

== How can I connect Crash to a JVM ? ==

See documentation Connection in Shell Usage chapter  [[reference.html#connection]]

= Basic =

== What is the best way to create a command ? ==

The best way to create a command is to use CRaSH utilities.
See command as a class : [[reference.html#command_as_class]]

== What is the best way to start with CRaSH ? ==

* Launch CRaSH and play with commands
* Create commands (script command and class command)
* See cookbook and documentation.


= Commons problems =

== "Command not found" ==

In most cases, when you created a command, it's a syntax error in a command.
Check your import and syntax with your ide.

== Can't find crash.properties file ==

You have to launch CRaSH in standalone mode once.
Then, it will appears in ##$CRASH_HOME/conf/##

== "Remoting issue" ==

It could happen when you have an error in your command.
For example :

{{screen}}
% jdbc select se
Remoting issue
{{/screen}}

== Where are base commands ? ==

They will be in ##$CRASH_HOME/cmd/base## directory.
You have to launch CRaSH once in standalone mode.


