CRaSH is configured by a set of properties, the properties are configured differently according to the mode.

= Configuring the standalone or attach mode =

In standalone or attach mode configuration can be in the ///conf/crash.properties// file or via the command line directly.

The //crash.properties// file does not exist by default and it is created at the first run, so you should run CRaSH
at least once to extract the file:

{{screen}}
% crash
{{/screen}}

You can also specify properties as a CRaSH command line argument with the //-p// option:

{{screen}}
% crash -p crash.property_name=property_value
{{/screen}}

= Configuring the web application mode =

In the war file packaging, the configuration file can be found under ///WEB-INF/crash/crash.properties// file of the archive.
Configuration can be overriden by Java Virtual Machine system properties by using the same property name.

= Configuration properties =

== Changing SSH server key ==

The key can be changed by replacing the file //WEB-INF/sshd/hostkey.pem//. Alternatively you can configure the server
to use an external file by using the //crash.ssh.keypath// parameter in the //crash.properties//. Uncomment the corresponding
property and change the path to the key file.

{{code}}
#crash.ssh.keypath=/path/to/the/key/file
{{/code}}

== Changing telnet or SSH server ports ==

The ports of the server are parameterized by the //crash.ssh.port// and //crash.telnet.port// parameters in the //crash.properties// file

{{code}}
# SSH configuration
crash.ssh.port=2000
{{/code}}

{{code}}
# Telnet configuration
crash.telnet.port=5000
{{/code}}

== Changing SSH authentication and idle timeouts ==

Default authentication and idle timeout of the SSH server are set to 10 minutes (600'000 ms). Both timeouts can be configured in milliseconds with the //crash.ssh.auth-timeout// and //crash.ssh.idle-timeout// parameters in the //crash.properties// file

{{code}}
# SSH configuration 5 minutes = 5 * 60 * 1000 = 300'000
crash.ssh.auth-timeout=300000
crash.ssh.idle-timeout=300000
{{/code}}


== Removing telnet or SSH access ==

* to remove the telnet access, remove the jar file in the //WEB-INF/lib/crsh.shell.telnet-$[crash.version].jar// .
* to remove the SSH access, remove the jar file in the //WEB-INF/lib/crsh.shell.ssh-$[crash.version].jar// .

== Configuring shell default message ==

The ///WEB-INF/crash/commands/base/login.groovy// file contains two closures that are evaluated each time a message is required

* The ##prompt## closure returns the prompt message
* The ##welcome## closure returns the welcome message

Those closure can be customized to return different messages.

== Configuring authentication ==

Authentication is used by the SSH server when a user authenticates. Authentication interface is pluggable and has default
implementations. The [[#pluggable_auth]] explains how to write a custom authentication plugin, in this section we cover the
configuation of the authentication.

The configuration of the authentication plugin is done via property, this is necessary because several plugins can be detected
by CRaSH, and the plugin is selected via the property //crash.auth// that must match the authentication plugin name:

{{code}}
crash.auth=simple
{{/code}}

CRaSH comes out of the box with two authentication plugins.

=== Simple authentication ===

Simple authentication provides a simple username/password authentication configured with the //crash.auth.simple.username// and
//crash.auth.simple.password// properties:

{{code}}
# Authentication configuration
crash.auth=simple
crash.auth.simple.username=admin
crash.auth.simple.password=admin
{{/code}}

=== Jaas authentation ===

Jaas authentication uses jaas to perform authentication configured with the //crash.auth.jaas.domain// property to define the
jaas domain to use when performing authentication:

{{code}}
# Authentication configuration
crash.auth=jaas
crash.auth.jaas.domain=my-domain
{{/code}}

=== Key authentication ===

Key authentication relies on a set of authorized public keys to perform authentication configured with the
//crash.auth.key.path// property to specify the path of the keys. . The property should point to a valid //.pem// file.
Obviously only a public key is required to be in the file, although it can also contain a private key (that will not be used).

{{code}}
# Authentication configuration
crash.auth=key
crash.auth.key.path=/Users/julien/.ssh/id_dsa.pem
{{/code}}
