There are several ways to run CRaSH, as a standalone application it controls its own JVM or as an embedded
service in an existing runtime like a web application or a Spring application.

= Standalone =

== Standalone mode ==

The standalone mode allows you to run CRaSH from the command line directly. It provides the same functionality as the
war deployment but does not require a web container as it runs its own virtual machine. The __crash__ directory
in the application contains the standalone distribution.

The bin directory ///crash/bin// can be added to the system path, it contains the //crash.sh// script that will start
the standalone mode, for instance you can set it up this way:

{{screen}}
> export PATH=/.../crash/bin:$PATH
> crash.sh
   ______
 .~      ~. |`````````,       .'.                   ..'''' |         |
|           |'''|'''''      .''```.              .''       |_________|
|           |    `.       .'       `.         ..'          |         |
 `.______.' |      `.   .'           `. ....''             |         | 1.0.0-cr2-SNAPSHOT

Follow and support the project on http://vietj.github.com/crash
Welcome to jerry + !
It is Thu Apr 12 21:19:35 CEST 2012 now
{{/screen}}

Let's review quickly what you can find in standalone crash:

* The //bin// directory contains the //crash.sh// script and the standalone crash jar file
* The //conf// directory contains the configuration properties //crash.properties// and JVM logging configuration //logging.properties//
* The //cmd// directory contains the commands that will be available in crash by default it contains a few example commands
* The //lib// directory contains the various libraries used by crash, you should place additional jar files there

== Attach mode ==

The attach mode allows you to attach CRaSH to a JVM located on the same host with the attach API provided by the Hotspot
JVM. It is the standalone mode attached to a running JVM specified by a process id. CRaSH will hook into the targetted JVM
instead of the JVM started by CRaSH. Let's see quickly an example of how to use it

{{screen}}
> jps
3165 RemoteMavenServer
20650 Test
20651 Jps

> crash.sh 20650
   ______
 .~      ~. |`````````,       .'.                   ..'''' |         |
|           |'''|'''''      .''```.              .''       |_________|
|           |    `.       .'       `.         ..'          |         |
 `.______.' |      `.   .'           `. ....''             |         | 1.0.0-cr2-SNAPSHOT

Follow and support the project on http://vietj.github.com/crash
Welcome to jerry + !
It is Thu Apr 12 22:09:23 CEST 2012 now
%
{{/screen}}

In this example we attached crash to the Test JVM. We obtained the Test JVM PID thanks to the //jps// command that belongs
to the Java Platform. During this mode the commands are executed in the target JVM.

== Configuration ==

The standalone mode relies on the ##org.crsh.standalone.CRaSH## class main method to configure and run the shell. The
startup scripts //crash.sh// and //crash.bar// configures this class. You can tweak those scripts to your environment,
let's review the options and arguments of ##CRaSH##:

=== //\--cmd// option ===

The //\--cmd// option specifies a directory containing command source files. Such directory contains commands as //.groovy// files,
commands can be in directories for grouping purpose. Several folders can be specified by repeating the option.

=== //\--cmd-mode// option ===

The standalone shell search commands in folders (specified with the //\--cmd// option and in the classpath (under the
///crash/commands/// folder). The //\--cmd-mode// option defines how to handle the classpath commands:

* The //read// option value uses commands from directories and classpath.
* The //copy// option value scans the classpath during the startup and copies the commands in the first command folder, then commands
 are used from the folders. This value requires at least one command directory to be specified for extracting the commands.

=== //\--conf// option ===

The //\--conf// option specifies a directory containing configuration files. Several folders can be specified by repeating the option.

=== //\--conf-mode// option ===

The standalone shell search configuration files in folders (specified with the //\--conf// option and in the classpath (under the
///crash/// folder). The //\--conf-mode// option defines how to handle the classpath configuration:

* The //read// option value uses configuration files from directories and classpath.
* The //copy// option value scans the classpath during the startup and copies the files in the first configuration folder, then configuration
 are used from the folders. This value requires at least one conf directory to be specified for extracting the configuration files.

=== //\--property// option ===

The //\--cmd// option sets and overrides a shell configuration property, the value follows the pattern //a=b//, for instance:

{{screen}}
crash.sh --property crash.telnet.port=3000
{{/screen}}

=== //pid// argument ===

The ##org.crsh.standalone.CRaSH## main has a single optional argument that is a JVM //process id//. When a JVM process id is specified,
  CRaSH will dynamically attach to this virtual machine and will be executed in that machine. The two JVM will communicate with
  a socket.

== Resource extraction ==

When the options //\--cmd-mode// or //\--conf-mode// are set to the //copy//, CRaSH will scan the classpath and extract the
 resources in the corresponding directory.

The default value of these options is //copy// however no copy happens unless at least one directory for extracting the resources
is specified, therefore

* The ##org.crsh.standalone.CRaSH## does nothing by default
* The //crash.sh// or //crash.bat// extracts the resources in the corresponding directory as the //cmd// and //conf// directories
are specified

To prevent any resource copying the value //read// should be used/

= Embedded mode =

== Embedding in a web app ==

CRaSH can use a standard web archive to be deployed in a web container. The war file is used for its packaging capabilities
and triggering the CRaSH life cycle start/stop. In this mode CRaSH has two packaging available:

* A __core__ war file found under //deploy/core/crash.war// provides the base CRaSH functionnalities
* A __gatein__ war file found under //deploy/gatein/crash.war// provides additional Java Content Repository (JCR)
 features but deploys only in a GateIn server (Tomcat or JBoss). It extends the core packaging and adds
** JCR browsing and interactions
** SCP support for JCR import and export

You have to copy the //crash.war// in the appropriate server, regardless of the packaging used.

If you want you can embed CRaSH in your own //web.xml// configuration:

{{example title="Embedding CRaSH in a web application"}}
{{xml}}
<web-app>
  <listener>
    <listener-class>org.crsh.plugin.WebPluginLifeCycle</listener-class>
  </listener>
</web-app>
{{/xml}}
{{/example}}

== Embedding in Spring ==

CRaSH can be easily embedded and configured in a Spring configuration

=== Embedding as a Spring bean ===

Here is an example of embedding crash:

{{example title="Embedding CRaSH in Spring"}}
{{xml}}
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
       xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
       xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
       http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-3.0.xsd">

	<bean class="org.crsh.spring.SpringBootstrap">
    <property name="config">
      <props>
        <!-- VFS configuration -->
        <prop key="crash.vfs.refresh_period">1</prop>

        <!-- SSH configuration -->
       <prop key="crash.ssh.port">2000</prop>

        <!-- Telnet configuration -->
        <prop key="crash.telnet.port">5000</prop>

        <!-- Authentication configuration -->
        <prop key="crash.auth">simple</prop>
        <prop key="crash.auth.simple.username">admin</prop>
        <prop key="crash.auth.simple.password">admin</prop>
      </props>
    </property>
	</bean>

</beans>
{{/xml}}
{{/example}}

The configuration properties are set as properties with the //config// property of the ##SpringBootstrap## bean.

Any Spring managed beans that extend ##org.crsh.plugin.CRaSHPlugin## will be automatically
registered as plugins in addition to those declared in ##META-INF/services/org.crsh.plugin.CRaSHPlugin##.

For example, the following implements a CRaSH authentication plugin that uses a JDBC DataSource 
managed by Spring:

{{example title="Spring managed authentication plugin"}}
{{java}}
package example;

import java.sql.Connection;
import java.sql.PreparedStatement;
import java.sql.ResultSet;

import javax.sql.DataSource;

import org.crsh.auth.AuthenticationPlugin;
import org.crsh.plugin.CRaSHPlugin;
import org.springframework.beans.factory.annotation.Autowired;
import org.springframework.stereotype.Component;

@Component("dbCrshAuth")
public class DbCrshAuthPlugin extends CRaSHPlugin<AuthenticationPlugin>
        implements AuthenticationPlugin {

    @Autowired
    private DataSource dataSource;

    @Override
    public AuthenticationPlugin getImplementation() {
        return this;
    }

    @Override
    public boolean authenticate(String username, String password)
            throws Exception {
        Connection conn = dataSource.getConnection();
        
        PreparedStatement statement = conn
                .prepareStatement("SELECT COUNT(*) FROM users WHERE username = ? AND password = ?");
        statement.setString(1, username);
        statement.setString(2, password);
        
        ResultSet rs = statement.executeQuery();
        return rs.getInt(1) >= 1;
    }

    @Override
    public String getName() {
        return "dbCrshAuth";
    }
    
    public void setDataSource(DataSource dataSource) {
        this.dataSource = dataSource;
    }
}
{{/java}}
{{/example}}

The above code uses Spring annotation driven beans, but this works the same with beans configured 
in XML:

{{example title="Custom authentication bean in spring.xml"}}
{{xml}}
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<beans xmlns="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans"
       xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance"
       xsi:schemaLocation="http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans
       http://www.springframework.org/schema/beans/spring-beans-3.0.xsd">

    <bean class="example.DbCrshAuthPlugin">
        <property name="dataSource" ref="dataSource"/>
    </bean>

</beans>
{{/xml}}
{{/example}}

=== Embedding in a Spring web app ===

In case you are embedding CRaSH in a Spring application running with a servlet container, the bean
 ##org.crsh.spring.SpringWebBootstrap## can be used instead of ##org.crsh.spring.SpringBootstrap##. The ##SpringWebBootstrap##
 extends the ##SpringBootstrap## class and adds the //WEB-INF/crash// directory to the command path.

An example packaging comes with the CRaSH distribution, a __spring__ war file found under //deploy/spring/crash.war// provides
the base CRaSH functionnalities bootstrapped by the Spring Framework. It can be used as an example for embedding CRaSH
 in Spring.

This example is bundled with a //spring// command that shows how the Spring factory or beans can be accessed within
a CRaSH command.
